being reasonable it's the most
ineluctably necessary and yet most
difficult thing for human beings to do
particularly in politics imagine if a
situation had transpired in Montreal
Canada very much parallel to what
transpired within the last 12 months in
Hong Kong China do you think that the
Government of Canada would be so patient
so tolerant and so broadly speaking
nonviolent in standing by and allowing
pro-democracy protesters to shut down
the universities in downtown Montreal
Canada allowing them to shut down all
the major roads and highways that flow
through Montreal Canada in allowing them
altum Utley to shut down and occupy the
airport from Montreal Canada do you
think the Canadian government would have
responded as obligingly would they have
shown so much tolerance and so much pace
that patience as we saw the communist
government of China show now you may
protest that the cause represented by
the protests in Hong Kong is very pious
and good challenge yourself think it
through if you would approve of the same
methods and tactics if it were a cause
you do not sympathize with you do not
agree with where you don't valorize the
objectives what if instead of
pro-democracy protesters and
pro-independence protesters by the way
both claims that revolutionaries in
Quebec could make and historically in
the recent past they have made that they
wanted independence and democracy in
Quebec for Quebecers and someone you can
imagine much of the same rhetoric could
apply to Montreal Quebec and their
independence for democracy sovereignty
movements so imagine if the same tactics
were being used by anti-abortion
protesters people who want abortion to
be made illegal depending on where you
live when you're watching this video
it's quite likely that 40% of the people
who surround you would prefer if
abortion were illegal it's quite
possible you live somewhere where 60% of
people are morally opposed to abortion
and in case you don't know this isn't
just an issue within Christianity
Christian dominate cultures it's an
issue within Islam it's an issue within
Chinese culture
it's an issue with in Indian culture
which is to say Hindu culture it's an
issue within Buddhism worldwide
Buddhists are anti-abortion case you
didn't know including even Tibetan
Buddhists supposedly groovy groups like
that if you actually get to know Chinese
people on a one-to-one basis you'll
figure out that most of them are
actually quite a bit more strongly
opposed to abortion than Catholics in
the modern West to give a very brief
digression or example many Catholics
will say they are opposed to abortion in
abstract and in general but when it
happens to them look it's their own
family their own unplanned pregnancy or
when they themselves get pregnant for
example with a child with Down syndrome
if they become pregnant with a fetus and
it's proven to have Johnson or Catholics
in the modern West generally we'll get
abortions when it suits their purpose
you can meet a lot of Chinese people
alive right now in 21st century who made
the opposite choice when it was the dam
when it was their life on the line when
it was their baby on the line etc they
really lived by it so I won't comment
further on Hindu India hasn't been as as
much a part of my life but you could say
something broadly similar Hinduism
Buddhism Taoism these are actually all
anti yours so the potential is there
anti-abortion protesters could shut down
your University anti-abortion protesters
could shut down the highways of your
capital city where you live
anti-abortion protesters could shut down
the airport and
their perspective they are representing
a cause even more pious and sacred and
good than the cause of democracy or an
abbess cos from their perspective
they're trying to prevent the murder of
innocent people they have total faith in
their own cause your outside perspective
may not see it that way but the outside
perspective of people in Beijing may not
see the situation of Hong Kong that way
and the outside perspective of people in
Toronto and Vancouver and New York they
may not see chemic Wanda pendants and
the québécois claims of a democracy in
that same way let's let's just cut right
to the chase here with one more example
do you think the Canadian government
would tolerate similar protests from our
indigenous people our First Nations
people for even five minutes if the Cree
a Jib way den a Iroquois for Native
people shut down the airport in Montreal
shut down University camps shut down
worlds through violence let's be clear
you know although it wasn't a ton of
violence the creation and maintenance of
the barricades in downtown Hong Kong
including shutting down their subway
system by the way preventing the subways
from working people couldn't enter and
exit Subway's but actually closing off
those roads closing off the campuses
children it involves violence okay and
you could imagine similarly if a bunch
of really passionate native people
indigenous people First Nations people
Canada creed NH it what if they all got
organized and all arrived at Montreal
Airport at the same time they could shut
down the airport all right if you
believe that civil disobedience is good
in and of itself right then you have to
approve of it when it's applied to these
various cases equally if it's acceptable
to shut down the airport for one cause
then it's acceptable to shut down the
airport for another don't judge the
method by the goodness of the cause or
the objectives being pursued by that
cause right you have to judge the method
in and of itself
nobody will sympathize with the
government of Communist China and that's
because it is an unelected
dictatorship and holding elections and
permitting a free press to criticize the
government and certain measures of
transparency those are the bare minimum
requirements for legitimacy in the 21st
century not the maximum performance I
did not regard the government of George
W Bush as being purchased with a JIT
omit and you might remember he actually
didn't win that election
long story way back in their 2000 before
most you were born I'm sure you don't
remember oh it's not such a change in
history it wasn't so long ago that the
United States itself did not meet these
minimum requirements for legitimacy and
government that's that's really worth
meditating on that's really worth
reflecting on and learning from the
future okay it is inevitable that no one
is going to sympathize the government of
China precisely because it is an
unelected communist dictatorship
however sympathy is not just for your
friends sympathy is not just for people
you agree with sympathy is not just for
people who are on the same team as
yourself sympathy is an analytical tool
and it's absolutely crucial than in the
pursuit of political change we use
sympathy as an analytical tool to
understand our enemies to understand
people who are strange and exotic and
distant and far removed from that of us
whether that is the government of China
the government of Iraq or the government
Africa
[Music]
you